{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24020\viewh7340\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 What were the causes of WW1?\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 How did the causes of war, along with the reasons for US involvement, shape the aims of the victors as they attempted to create a treaty at Versailles?\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 There were several causes to WW1;\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Militarism\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Growing\'a0european\'a0divide that led to an arms race between the main countries.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Armies of both France and Germany had doubled in the 40 years previous to the war.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Fierce competition between Germany and Britain for control of a dominant naval power.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Introduced "dreadnought" battleships that were the first of their kinds and took naval battles to new levels.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 The Schlieffen plan, which was ultimately the mobilization plan that German used to set up two different fronts in the war, first attacking France through Belgium, and then attacking Russia to the East.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Nationalism\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Austria-Hungary took over the former Turkish province of Bosnia. This angered Serbians which ultimately led to the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand. When Austria-Hungary was not pleased by the punishment of the slaying of their heir to the Hungarian Throne, they declared war and it started the collective defense, which was everyone taking up arms and staying true to their alliances.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Imperialism\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 With the rise of industrialism in\'a0europe, countries needed new markets, and tensions were already high after the\'a0european\'a0countries scrambled for\'a0african\'a0colonies. This increased\'a0germany's\'a0rivalry with France and Britain and ended up giving Germany a bone to pick with them.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 US Involvement and causes\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 The US got involved partly because of the sinking of the\'a0Luisitana, which had\'a0american\'a0passengers, but was a British vessel. The unrestricted submarine warfare wasn\'92t the spark that led to the US getting into the war, but certainly fueled the fire. The real tipping point came as the interception of the Zimmerman telegraph, which was a letter from Germany to Mexico asking Mexico to attack the United States from the south and start a whole different front in the western hemisphere.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Aims of the victors for WW1\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 14 Points by Wilson\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Freedom and Neutrality of the Seas\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Free Trade between Nations\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Belgium back to pre-war status\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Establishment of a league of nations.\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Paris Peace Conference\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960

\f0\fs30 \cf0 meeting of the victors to decide what to do with the defeated central powers, creation of the league of nations and the treaty of\'a0versailles\'a0
\f1\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Armistice Day November 11,1918\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Henry Cabot Lodge\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 \'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Muese\'a0Argonne Offensive- so many people died during this last stand, it mad the\'a0victos\'a0want to make the defeated countries pay for the damage done and the lives taken.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs16 \

\f0\fs30 Collective defense would become obsolete, because no more secret treaties would be had under the 14 points }